Sept 2025 spelling (pt.2) (#7375)
umbraco/UmbracoDocs: 10/umbraco-cms/reference/routing/custom-routes.md

}
```

> This method is a bit more interesting, here we get some extra data from a different source, in this case a `DbContext`, but this can be anything you want, using the id we get from the route values. We use this extra data to create a custom model, which includes the available stores, which we then render the view with.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here, we get some extra data from a different source. In this case, a `DbContext`, but this can be anything you want, using the ID we get from the route values. We use this extra data to create a custom model, which includes the available stores, which we then render the view with.
```

}
```

> We start off by getting our product root using the `UmbracoContext` to get it based off its id. Next we need to figure out what action is being requested, to do this we cast the `actionExecutingContext.ActionDescriptor` to a `ControllerActionDescriptor` and use its `ActionName` property. If the action name is index, we just return the product root, but if it's product, we try to get the SKU from the route value `id`, and try to find the child node which matches the SKU and return that.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Start by retrieving the product root using the `UmbracoContext` to obtain it based on its ID. Next, let's figure out what action is being requested. To do this, cast the `actionExecutingContext.ActionDescriptor` to a `ControllerActionDescriptor` and use its `ActionName` property. If the action name is index, it returns the product root. If it's a product, we get the SKU from the route value `id` and find the matching child node.
```

}
```

> As you can see there's nothing Umbraco specific about the controller routing, it's using the default `MapController` route of the `EndpointRouteBuilder`, we give our mapping a name, a pattern for the controller and some default values, so if no action is specified it will default to `Index`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There's nothing Umbraco-specific about the controller routing; it's using the default `MapController` route of the `EndpointRouteBuilder`. Give the mapping a name, a pattern for the controller, and some default values, so if no action is specified, it will default to `Index`.
```
